SCRUM PRINCIPLES

1. Empirical Process Control (emphasizes on core philosophy of scrum - Transparency/Inspection/Adaption)
2. Self - Organization (Focuses on today's workers - self organize other than working under command and control)
3. Collaboration (Awareness/articulation/appropriation - advocates project management as a shared value creation process)
4. Value-Based Prioritization (Max Buisness value from project starting and throughout project)
5. Time-Boxing (sprints/Daily standup/sprint Planning meeting/sprint review meetings)
6. Iterative Development (emphasizes on better management of changes to satisfy customer needs)


SCRUM ASPECTS

1. Organization
	Defining Roles and Responsibilities
	Roles - Core Roles/Non Core Roles
	Core Roles - Involved in product/service
				core roles individuals are fully commited to project
				reponsible for success of each project or iteration
				Product Owner/Scrum Master/Scrum Team
		Buisness stake holder (Customer who provide buisness requirements to ProductOwner
		Product Owner - reponsible for 
							achieving max buisness value
							Articulates customer requirements
							maintains buisnesss justification for project
							represents voice of customer
		Scrum Master - Reponsible for
		(facilitator)		team has appropriate environment
							guides/facilitates/teaches scrum practices
							clears impediments/roadblocks for the team
							ensures the scrum processes are being followed
		Scrum Team - Group or team reponsible for
							understanding product owner specific requirements
							create project deliverables
	Non - Core Roles (Optional) - May include all team members who are interested in project
						No formal roles but may interface with team
						not be responsible for succes of project
						
						
2. Buisness justification (Product Owner is primarily responsible for BJ)
	Important to perform buisness assessment before start of project
	this understands/helps for key decision makers to understand the buisness need for change, new project/service
	Value-Driven Delivery
	Uncertainity of results/outcomes
	impossible to gurantee project's success or completion
	scrum gives delivering results as early as possible 
	This provides an opportunity for reinvestment
	Allows project's objectives/processes to change in case of buisness justification changes

3. Quality
	Ability of completed product to meet the acceptance criteria and achieve the buisness value expected by customer
	
4. Change
	orgnizations try to maximize the benefits that arise from change and minimize any negative impacts
	scrum Acknowledges
		Requirements churn
		welcomes changes by using short iterative sprints
			
5. Risk
	An uncertain event or set of events that can affect the objectives of a project and may contribute to its success or failure
	


SCRUM PROCESSES
	Address the specific activities and flow of scrum project. 
	Total, there are 19 processes which are grouped into 5 phases

    5 Phases (Each phase has Inputs, Outputsm, Tools)

Phase 1: Initiate	
1. Create Project Vision - Product owner identified
2. Identify Scrum Master and Buisness Stakeholder(s)
3. Form Scrum Team - team members are identified
4. Develop EPIC(s)/Credibility - Large and high level requirements
			Epic(s) are divided into Feature(s) - 
			Feature - User stories
5. Create a prioritized product backlog
			Epic(s) are eloborated
6. Conduct Release Planning

Phase 2: Plan and Estimate
7. Create User Stories - product owner
8. Estimate User stories - Scrum team supported by scrum master
9. Commit User stories - team commits to deliver Product owner approved user stories for a sprint
10. Identify Tasks - commited user stories broken into tasks list
11. Estimate Tasks - optional process (team estimates the tasks)
12. Update Sprint Backlog - team updates the sprint backlog with further details about the tasks as part of sprint planning meeting/sprint

Phase 3: Implement
13. Create deliverables - Team works on the tasks in the sprint backlog to create sprint deliverables
14. Conduct Daily Standup - highly focused, timeboxed meeting. update progress and impediments (Roadblocks)
15. Refine Prioritized Product Backlog - PPBL is continously updated and maintained. PPBL Review meeting may held. Changes or updates to the backlog are discussed and incorported to PPBL

Phase 4: Review and Retrospect
16. Demostrate and Validate Sprint - Team demonstrate sprint deliverables to PO or SH
17. Retrospect Sprint - meet to discuss the lessons learnt. May be agreed actionable improvements or updated scrum guidance

Phase 5: Release
18. Ship Deliverables - Accepted UserStories or previously completed sprints are delivered
19. Retrospect Release - Buisness Stakeholder and scrum core team members assemble to retrospect
							Identify,document and internalize the lessons learnt
							These will be help to make agreed actionable improvements to implement in future projects

Scrum Ceremonies/meetings
	Project Vision Meeting - 	project vision statement created
	User group meeting 	   -	Develop epics and create UserStories
	Release planning sessions - create release planning schedule
	Product backlog review meeting -
	Sprint planning meeting 8hrs for 1month sprint (two parts 1.objective definition 2.Task Estimation(identify tasks and estimate tasks)
	Sprint review meeting 4hrs for 1month sprint (accepts/rejects completed user stories)
	Retrospect Sprint Meeting 4hrs for 1month sprint 
	Retrospect Release Meeting
	Daily standup - 15 mins(what is done from last standup, what to do before next meeting, any roadblocks)
	sprint - 1-4weeks(recommended 4weeks, extended to 6weeks for stable requirements)

DOR - Definition of Ready
	In agile methodologies, the Definition of Ready (DoR) sets the criteria for when a backlog item can be started, ensuring it has enough information and clarity for the team to work on it effectively.

DOD - Definition of Done
	 In contrast, the Definition of Done (DoD) is the checklist that determines when a completed work item meets quality and completeness standards and is ready for delivery. 

